Video 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6lISDjLmEfw
================================================================================
[Music]
in this video we're going to talk about
the difference between a physical and a
logical network topology so when we're
talking about a topology
think about it as being synonymous as a
blueprint so if you remember earlier on
in the course i said that a network is
composed of two components it has a
physical component
and it has a logical component so when
you're talking about
the physical component think of that as
the physical blueprint for the building
the actual placement of those devices so
let's take for example let's say that we
are hired as contractors to set up a
network for a small business and we need
to determine where everything is going
to be physically placed so we have
servers we have switches we have routers
we have firewalls we have printers we
have a variety of different devices and
we need to actually define on that
blueprint where we're going to put them
where the cabling is going to go and so
forth that is the physical topology it's
as simple as that it's where everything
is physically connected now on the flip
side the logical topology well that
deals with the actual data and how it
flows and this is a bit more complex
because different devices like let's say
for example a switch here
and a wireless access point here so i'll
just say wap
well they have
different protocols that tell them
how things are supposed to flow when i
say things i'm talking about the data
and specifically we have something
called ethernet we have something called
csma
cd and we have something called 802.11
and csma ca but when we're talking about
these we're talking about ethernet and
csma cd and 802.11 and csma
ca these things are talking about how
the data flows they dictate how the data
flows and you're going to learn how
those work i actually have them broken
down into process flow so you understand
exactly how these work and the rules for
data being flowed through wireless and
wired networks so that's the difference
between a physical and a logical
topology again this is just a very basic
high-level primer on the difference
between these two but as we get further
on in the course you'll see how this
applies to various situations so if you
have any questions please let me know if
not thanks for watching and i'll see you
at the next video take care
well i hope that you enjoyed today's
video and you learned a lot from it if
you did please give this video a thumbs
up and also consider subscribing to my
youtube channel now if you're interested
in taking this full course or just
learning more about it check out the
video description down below because
i've included a link where you can learn
more about the course and enroll into it
if you'd like so again thanks for
watching my video i appreciate it and i
look forward to seeing you guys at the
next video take care
you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Video 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eEK0xaT4CQk
================================================================================
hello everyone how is it going my name
is Ahmed inaya and in this series of
videos I will talk about some Network
fundamentals that everyone should know
before working or studying networking in
this video or in this part I'll talk
about decimal binary and heximal numeral
systems these systems are important for
anyone who wants to understand how
computers communicate and how they find
the location of each other so in this
video we'll talk about three different
numeral system that are used in computer
networks we'll start by talking about
decimal or base 10 then binary base two
and we'll talk also about hexad decimal
which is base 16 in the coming few
slides I will discuss these systems in
more details so let's start by talking
about decimal numbers which are the
common numbers we use in our daily life
decimal means 10 and this is the
numbering system that we teach to our
kids in school and we use when we sell
and buy
or when doing any calculations it is the
most common numeral system in our daily
lives so why 10 what is unique about 10
I think this is mainly because we have
10 fingers so humans found it much
easier to calculate based on tin rather
than any other numbering system but this
is valid for humans computers don't have
fingers so it doesn't make sense for
computers to use the same numbering
systems as humans but let's try to
understand this syst system more because
whatever applies into this system can be
used also to understand other systems so
the numbers of decimal system are 0 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 which are the numbers that
we use in our daily life so let's take
this number for example as we can see
here these numbers 3 6 7 have different
values based on the location of these
numbers so this three for example has
different value than six and have
different value than seven seven is ones
so this means this seven is only ones
only seven six is 10 which mean this
number is 60 actually and this three is
300 so this number is hundreds and we
can keep going on for thousands T of
thousands hundreds of thousands millions
so let's try to classify these numbers
into hundreds tens and ones so if you
want to get the value of any of these
numbers you multiply it by the unit of
this location so the number here is my
multiplied by 100 the number here is
multiplied by T and this number is
multiplied by ones which means the same
number exactly if you want to convert
this into mathematical formulas we can
say the number here is multiplied by 100
the number here is multiplied by 10 and
the number here is multiplied by one and
if we use power off we can say this
number is multiplied by 10 to the power
of 0 this number is multiplied by 10 to
the^ of 1 and this number is multiplied
by 10 to the^ two so one way or another
we can say that this number has the
location of zero this number has the
location of one this number has the
location of two So based on number
location we decide the value of this
number by multiplying this number by 10
to the power of the same location of
this digit and this is the way numbering
system can be represented in
mathematical formula if this is clear to
you let's move on and discuss another
numbering system so after decimal
numbers let's start by talking about by
binary numbers binary numbers are the
basic numbers used by computers and this
is mainly because computers store data
and exchange data as on or off signals
or zero or one to simplify it let's
represent this by two bulbs or two lamps
one of them is off means zero and the
other one is on which means one so when
computers want to send information
between themselves they use these bulbs
to exchange signals if the bulb is on
this means one if the bulb is off this
means zero it is much more complex than
this but let's use this example to
simplify things similar to decimal
numbers the value of the digit depends
on its location so if the bulb is here
it has different value than the bulb
which is here and the exact value
depends on the exact location of this
bul compared to the whole number and if
we apply the same formula that we use in
decimal numbers it is exactly the same
so the value of any number equals the
number time 2 to the power of the digit
location for this number so for example
if we have four bulbs and these two
computers want to exchange information
using these bulbs assuming we have these
values so this is zero the bulb is off
which means zero this bulb is on which
means one this one off means zero and
this one on means one we apply the same
concept we used in decimal numbers which
says the value of this bulb equals
whatever here times 2 to the^ of three
because the location of this bulb is
number three it all starts from here by
zero 1 2 3 so the value of this bulb is
multiplied by 2 to the^ 3 the value of
the bulb is multiplied by 2 to the^ two
and this one 2 the^ 1 and then 2 to the^
0 if you convert this into decimal 2^ 3
is 8 2^ 2 is 4 2 to the^ 1 is 2 and any
number to the^ 0 is 1 and if we did the
math this is equals to 0 * 8 + 1 * 4 + 0
* 2 + 1 * 1 and this equals 5 this 5
actually is decimal so this way we can
convert any binary number into decimal
so if you see two computers exchanging
information by using this arrangement of
bulbs you know that this number equals
five decimal so as a result one one0
binary equals five decimal if this is
clear to you we can move to the next
numbering system which is hexadecimal
numbers hexadecimal means 16 so when we
say hexadecimal number this means this
number is to the base 16 and similar to
decimal and binary hexadecimal numbers
are from 0 to F or from 0 to 15 decimal
so how this works what is if let's look
into the details of these numbers the
numbers from 0 to 9 are similar to
decimal because we have these numbers
already they found it easier to keep
these numbers the same in hexadecimal
system but how about the numbers from 10
to 15 to provide symbols for these
numbers they use the letters from A to F
so the letter a in hexad decimal equals
10 in decimal the letter b equals 11 C12
D13 e14 and F is 15 so what is the
importance of hexad decimal if computers
are using bulbs or binary systems to
exchange information why do we need
hexad decimal in one way or another
hexadecimal numbers can be used to
shorten binary numbers so instead of
having long binary numbers you can have
shorter hexad decimal numbers and the
good thing about hexadecimal is that
every four digits of binary system are
equivalent to one digit in hexad decimal
which makes mapping between binary and
hexad decimal and vice versa much easier
than decimal system and we will discuss
this more in the coming videos if we
apply the same system that we used in
decimal and in binary the value of any
digit is equal to 16 to the power of the
location of that digit and if we apply
the same concept we use in decimal and
in binary the value of any digit in
hexad decimal equals 16 to the power of
the location of this digit so for
example let's assume we have this number
this is a heximal number 2 e d and if we
apply the same concept we used in binary
and decimal systems considering that
this is digit zero this is digit one and
this is digit two so this leads to this
these numbers this value should be
multiplied by 16 to the power two this
value which is 14 should be multiplied
by 16 to the power of 1 how did we get
14 this is from this table we know from
this table that E equals 14 so e hexad
decimal equals 14 decimal so if you want
to calculate the value in decimal we
should multiply this e14 by 16 to^ of 1
D equals 13 and based on its location it
should be multiplied by 16 to the^ of 0
if we did the calculation in decimal we
know that 16 to the^ of 2 is 256 16 to
the^ of 1 is 16 and 16 to the^ of 0 is 1
actually any number to the power of 0
equals 1 and if we did the calculation
to find the decimal equivalent of this
hexad decimal number we need to multiply
2 by 256 and 14 by 16 and 13 by 1 to get
this number which is 749 decimal so 2 Ed
hexad decimal equals 749 decimal so how
to do conversion between these numbers
if we want to convert from decimal to
Binary or binary to exit decimal we will
discuss this in the next video but for
now you can use calculator any
scientific calculator should have a way
to to convert between hexa decimal
decimal octal and binary so for example
this is from Windows 10 if you use
programmer interface you can easily
convert between these numbers using this
calculator in the next video we will
discuss this conversion in more details
without using any calculator if you find
this video useful please like subscribe
and enable notification to know about
our coming videos

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Video 3: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5WfiTHiU4x8
================================================================================
IP addresses. They're pure magic.
They make the internet work.
That's why pretty much everything
in my house has an IP address.
My phone watch light bulbs, oven car,
my kids, my toilet.
Well, not yet. I really.
Don't like touching the toilet like this.
But what is an IP address and what
makes the magic? Let's talk about that.
In fact,
this is the first episode in a series I'm
calling you suck at subnetting because
we all kind of suck at subnetting just
a little bit, right? And in this series,
we're gonna start with, Hey,
what the junk is an IP address,
which we're addressing today,
ah, addressing. And by the end,
you'll have master chief ninja subnetting
skills, whatever you wanna call it,
you're gonna be good at subnetting.
That's what I'm trying to get across.
And in case you don't know, knowing IP,
addressing and subnetting is like
acquired skill for everything in it.
Like every single job, networking,
ethical, hacking security cloud,
it all involves an IP address. And
it all involves delicious subnet.
This video is also part of my CCNA
series, sponsored by boon software.
If you wanna get your CCNA or your CCMP
two of the best it certifications in the
world, boon is what you want to use from
courseware to labs to practice exams.
They have you covered. They'll
get you prepped and ready.
I personally use boon to pass my
t-shirt exam, which is very, very hard.
Cisco networking exam and boon
was amazing. And not to mention,
they have a great amount
of content on subnetting.
So as you're watching this
video and this series,
and you wanna get extra
practice, dude, check out boon.
And it's not just CCNA and
CC and P they have security.
Plus they've got C H all kinds
of stuff. They have the best,
like I'm not kidding the best practice
exams in the industry. So if you're like,
yeah, yeah, I'm not sure if I'm gonna
pass security. Plus they'll tell you,
try their practice exam. And
they'll tell you, anyways,
IP or internet protocol addresses,
they're kind of like phone numbers
that we assign to all of our devices.
So when my toilet wants to
send a message to my apple,
watch letting him know how I'm doing.
He totally can because they have a
way to communicate with each other.
They have a phone number, well kind of,
we use phone numbers to text each other,
but devices don't, they use IP addresses
and they lo little different for sure.
And we'll talk about how weird they work,
but just know that without
an IP address, they can't.
So that's why we give them
one. It opens up communication,
not to mention and gives your devices
the ability to connect to the internet
because don't you want everything to be
able to connect to your toilet. Yeah.
So now that we know that if a device
wants to talk to any other device,
it needs an IP address.
That means that the device
you're watching me on right now,
it has an IP address. FBI, open up
because it's talking to YouTube,
YouTube's talking back to it. Let's go
find your IP address, whatever you have.
We can find it on windows.
We're gonna launch a thing
called CMD or command props,
go and search for that and open it on
Mac and Linux is gonna be a thing called
terminal, launch that. And for
your phone or any other device,
I'll show you here in a second here in
windows, one command type in IP config,
all one word, just like that, and hit
enter on Linux type in I F config,
all one word hit, enter on your
phone, go into your settings,
jump into your wifi info, dive deep
into the interface and you'll see, Hey,
there's an IP address. And looking
back at windows here is the IP address.
You'll know it because
it'll say I P D four,
address on the side over here
and don't let the V4 confuse you.
Ignore it for now. Now let's talk
about the sucker, the IP address.
He looks kind weird, kind of dorky
technical. He's a mess of numbers,
separated by dots, three dots. So
that's already strange by itself,
but then we have this guy and then
this guy, what are they doing? Well,
they are basically your IP
addresses best friends. Well, tell,
talk more about them here in a bit, but
this guy right here is Mr. Subnet mask.
At least that's what he's called and
windows over here on Macker Lennox,
you might see net mask, same thing.
And then this gal right here
is miss default gateway.
She also goes by default router or just
router for short, but enough about them.
Let's talk about the star of the show.
The one we care about the IP
address and let's first cover.
How in the world did he even get here?
How did your device get this number?
Who gave it to him? Is it safe? Who
gave it to you device? Actually,
that's a legit question. Sometimes
you can get a bad IP address,
different video for another time. So
how did your device get this IP address?
Did it just fall out of the sky?
Yeah, kind of. If you're using wifi,
you see in your homes
and in your businesses,
we have this thing called a
router. It may look familiar.
It might be hiding in your closet.
A underneath that sweater you got for
Christmas, which by the way, rescue it,
get that sweater off of him. He has
to breathe. It gets hot in there.
The router is the Oprah of
your IP addresses. What?
Every time a device connects to
your network, she says, here,
here's an IP address. Here's an IP
address for you and for you, for you,
everyone gets an IP address.
Now this dark and mysterious magic
known as DHCP is why this works.
If you wanna learn more about that,
we'll talk, talk about that later,
but essentially Oprah gives
your devices, IP addresses.
That's what I want your takeaway
to be. Write that down. Okay.
Now looking back at the IP
address, let me ask you a question.
How is it that I know that
your IP address starts with
1 92, 1 68, 1 like most of you that
is your IP address, right? Creepy.
Especially since each of these numbers
can be any number between zero and two to
55. So your IP address could
be ten three, two, one,
or it could even be 1, 2, 3, 4.
So why is it that most of your IP
addresses start with 1 92, 1 68 1?
Well, there's a lot of reasons actually,
that I'm not gonna go into because
it does get pretty complicated,
but the short and easy
answer is that it's Oprah.
Oprah decided that that's what your IP
address should be, should start with.
It always comes back to Oprah.
And the way that Oprah tells us that
each IP address in your network in your
house is gonna start with 1 92, 1 6,
8. One is through Mr. Subnet mask.
I told you, come gonna play
here in a bit. Here he is.
He looks even weirder than
the IP address. And honestly,
he's a pretty complex dude.
We're gonna spend a lot of time getting
to know this guy in this series,
but real quick, can I show you a hack?
That's gonna save you like a
billion hours. Now notice that Mr.
Subnet mask does look pretty
similar to the IP address.
He's got four sets of
numbers and three dots.
And if you assume that the first number
in the IP address matches up to the
first number in the subnet mask,
you'd be exactly right. In fact,
they all match up two to two to
three to three, four to four.
Now here comes the hack. When you see
2 55 in an OCTE, which by the way,
each of these sections separated
by a dot, we call them octets.
We will dive deeper into why we
call them that. And yeah, it's,
it's gonna get a lot more nerdy and so
much more fun. I can't tell you more.
Just know they're called octets for
now. Just calm down. So anyways,
back to the hack, if
that number is a 2 55,
then we know that the corresponding number
or the corresponding OCTE will always
stay the same within your network. That
is so looking at our subnet mask here,
we know the first three octets. So
the first three numbers are 2 55,
which tells us that the first three
numbers in P address 1 9, 2, 1 6, 8,
and one will always stay
the same in our network.
We can confidently say that every single
device in your network at your house or
your business, if they look like this,
they're gonna start with 1 9 2 1 6 8 1.
And that brings us to the
last number over here,
the zero what's this guy doing
this zero is telling us that, Hey,
this slot last number, it
can be whatever you want,
whatever your heart's desire, as
long at just between zero and 2 55,
but still whatever you want, you
can use. 'em all. So to sum it up,
when you see a 2 55, that number's locked
in, these numbers will never change,
but the zero tells us the
final number totally will,
based on what device it's assigned to.
So if you'll allow me to get a bit nerdier
and go a bit deeper in the networking
world,
we refer to these numbers right here as
the network portion of the IP address.
And then on this side,
the side that'll change based
on what device it's assigned to.
We call that the host portion because
in networking and it, in general,
when we have devices on a network,
your phone, your watch, your toilet,
we call those hosts. Your toilet is a
host and it has an IP address. Now what?
I just put that in your pocket. Don't let
nobody hack it. This will become very,
very important later, but now
let me ask you a question.
Why is it important that we have to know
the network portion of the IP address?
Why do we have to know that
the IP addresses in our
network start with 1 92 0.1
6, 8 1 analogy time. We can
also think about an IP address,
like the address of our house. Like, you
know, the place you and tell you what,
why don't you comment below your
home address? I'm totally kidding.
Don't do that. Are you crazy?
Don't do that. But anyways,
you live in a house in that
house. Most of the time,
I think always is going
to be on a street, right?
And let's say your street that
you live on is private drive.
If you know where that's from,
comment below and because you're probably
not the only house on private drive,
you can't just say, Hey, send
me a edge on private drive.
I live on private drive.
Oh, houses need windows.
I know it looked kind of weird. Hold on,
let me draw some windows. So anyways,
we'll assign a unique house number to you.
So you might live at four private drive
and your buddy might live at five and
then six and then 7, 8,
9. You got it. Right?
So if I were to send you
some network check coffee,
it would go to four private drive.
So I sent you some coffee and it was so
can dang delicious that you wanted to
bring some over to your friend, your
buddy Bernard, over at six private drive.
There's Bernard, no hang tight.
Here's where the analogy comes
into play with IP addresses.
So would you call ups and say, Hey, I
have some coffee. I wanna give Bernard,
come pick it up and take it to
Bernard. No. Now why would you do that?
Bernard lives on your same street.
So as you're preparing to send Bernard
some coffee, you would go, oh, Hey,
Bernard lives on private drive.
Therefore I can just walk outside and
hand it to him because we're so stinking
close. We're in the same street.
We're in the same neighborhood.
So if you're tracking with me
here, this analogy feels weird.
I don't know why is it
me? It's probably me.
If you're tracking with me the
network portion of our IP address,
the thing that stays the same
is akin to private drive and
the host portion.
The thing that does change is the
house address the house number four,
or it could be five,
or it could be six based on who you're
sending it to with our devices in our
network. It's the same for,
if you wanna share a picture
from your phone to your computer,
your phone will look at the IP address
of the computer and go, oh, Hey, yo,
we're on the same network. 1 92,
1 68, 1 he's in my neighborhood.
I can just walk over and give it to him.
But now let's say that the
coffee's really, really,
really good and Bernard wants
to send it to his buddy. Dr.
Strange over here on Bleecker
street. So Bernard and looks at Dr.
Strange's address. And he goes,
okay. He Bleecker, I can't say it.
Bleecker street. I don't
live on Bleecker street.
I can't just walk outside and hand
coffee to Dr. Strange. In fact,
he lives all the way in New York. He's
far away or maybe another dimension.
I don't know what what's going on.
So Bernard realizing he needs help.
We'll just call ups and have them
come pick it up and take coffee to Dr.
Strange. And in the same way, my
laptop may wanna out to netflix.com,
which has this IP address. And it's
in a completely different network.
And my laptop will go, dude.
He's not in my network.
He's not in my same
neighborhood. I need some help.
I need to call ups except in
this scenario, it's not ups.
It's miss default gateway or
miss default router, AKA router,
your computer or any on your network
will look at it's IP address.
And then look at Mr.
Subnet mask and go, huh?
My network is 1 9, 2, 1 60 eight.one.
Netflix is not in my neighborhood.
I need help. Please help me. Miss
default, gateway, miss default gateway.
She knows everything.
She knows exactly how to get to Netflix
and she'll take it from there off on
fact, miss default gateway.
She's actually your router.
She's Oprah. I know mind blown the
entire time. Never saw it coming.
What a plot twist. That's some Scooby do
stuff right there. So sum that part up.
Whenever any device in your network,
whether it's your home network
or network at a business,
or pretty much any network in the world
when it wants to talk to something,
not on its same street and it wants to
talk to something outside its network.
It has to talk to its router.
It's default gateway to get out.
It has to talk to Oprah. Write
that down now real quick.
I got a challenge question for you. Let's
see if you've been paying attention,
looking at my network here, which might
be the exact same as your network.
I told you, this is one of the
most common networks in the world,
or did I tell you that? By the way,
this is one of the most
common networks in the world.
My kid just screamed for private networks,
looking at this IP address and
looking at this subnet mask.
How many possible IP addresses are
available to assign to devices in your
network? And by the way, if
you could figure this out,
that pretty much covers
the majority of networks.
I'm not sure what the statistics are,
but I think like network Chuck's opinion,
like 95% of all networks
kind of look like this.
So go ahead and comment your answer
below just raw, without me telling you,
I'm curious what it will be,
but let's walk through it real quick
and you're probably wrong. Sorry.
Looking at this, we know 2 55 and the
sub mask means this number locked in,
stays the same. So does this one
and this one because of the 2 55,
but over here is zero.
We know this last number can be
anything as long as it's between
zero and 255, which would give us a total,
including zero of 256 IP
addresses party. We get a ton,
but you're wrong. It's not 250 E
six because like everything in life,
there's a catch. There's always
tax. There's always extra fees.
You always have to look for that
life lesson. Anyways, here we go.
Where's the catch. Where's the extra fees
in our networking. Well, first of all,
right off the bat, there are always
two IP addresses that are reserved,
that you cannot touch. You cannot use.
And any given network first it's the
first IP address and your network.
So in this one, it would be 1 92 do
1 68, 1 0 that one's untouchable.
It's referred to as the network
address. He's a leader. He's the first,
the firstborn son. You can't touch him.
The second IP address you can't touch
is the last IP address in your network.
And this particular network
we're talking about.
It'd 1 92, 1 6, 8, 1 dot 2 55. This guy,
dude, he talks way much.
He's a chatty, Kathy.
We call him the broadcast address
because when you tell him something,
he tells it to everyone. Can't keep a
secret. And that's legit what he does.
When you send anything to a broadcast
address, the last IP address, any network,
it literally will broadcast it out to
everybody. It's like, Hey everyone,
guess what? So don't tell him anything
unless you want everyone to know.
So that's two, you can't touch. And
then one you really have to think about,
and it might just be this default
gateway. There has to be a router. Oh,
I just drove over that.
There has to be a router in your network
and that will take up one IP address.
So we're now three IP
addresses shy of 256,
which gives us a total of
250 free usable IP addresses.
If you got that right, you're on your
way to becoming a subnetting master.
Congrats. If you didn't,
that's totally okay.
This is so brand new and can be
very complex, but don't worry.
We're gonna hold hands. No, I'm gonna
hold your hand and walk you through this.
So little coffee break. We
covered so much in this video.
Oh, that's cold coffee.
That's how long I've been here recording
it's cold coffee. Like the video.
Cause I just sip some cold coffee. I, I,
ah, I need to heat it up, but anyways,
let's take a look. What we've
covered so far in this video,
we talked about IP addresses, right? We
talked about that. Everything in your,
your network,
in your house that wants to connect and
talk either to other devices in your
network or two devices outside
the network on the internet,
Netflix or just your toilet, having
a conversation with your watch.
If any of that needs to happen,
you have to have an IP address,
basically the cell phone
number of your devices,
unless you actually have a cell phone.
Then it also has a cell phone number
and an IP address. Very confusing.
I know Chuck get better at analogies.
You also get a chance to meet Mr. Subnet,
a very complex and mysterious dude.
You'll get to know a lot
better in the coming videos.
He also goes by net mask and he tells
us and our devices what our IP addresses
and our entire network start with.
He tells us what street we live on.
And this network right here,
this street we live on is 1 90, 2 60
eight.one because of our little hack,
the 2 55 S then finally you
met miss default gateway,
AKA default router or router
or Oprah. She does it all.
Not only does she give all your
devices in your network N IP address,
but she could help you
get outside your network.
If you wanna go visit Netflix or network,
check.com or even better network,
chuck.coffee. So anyways,
that's IP addresses and I just
realized I spelled IP address wrong.
Let's add the extra D cool. We're
good. And lemme tell you, yes,
we are just scratching the service.
We're gonna get much more complex on
how IP addresses work in the world
and, and your home network
and in your business.
And you'll learn that killer
skill, that crazy awesome,
old that you pretty much need
for anything in it. Subnetting,
because let me tell you, this example
we've been working with here is very,
very simple, but don't you worry.
You're gonna learn the skills to
make this crazy complex and fun.
And by the end, you will be a
master chief ninja subnet master.
Did I say master twice? That's fine.
This video is sponsored by manscaped.
Hold on. Let me make sure
there's no one listening on beer.
We should be good. No little ears
out there. All right. Listen up men.
This ad is for you cuz
I got some new toys.
So as you may recall from my last ad or
maybe other ads manscape is all about
stuff below the waist for men. Uh, yeah.
It's trusted over 4 million men to
make sure everything downstairs is
looking good. Smelling. Good,
good. Now manscape is going,
um,
beyond the groin with the
brand new lineup of products,
they're calling this the manscaped
ultra premium collection,
all those really big words.
This is an all in one skin care kit so
they can got stuff for your skin and for
your hair. That's pretty good.
Got some shampoo and body wash.
And this is the, the newest
formulations by manscape for your, uh,
your butt balls and
body all in one package.
The reason these ads are so awkward.
All right, so they, they have steps.
What do you say? We give it a
try. Let's do this step one.
I'll hop in the shower and use the
two in one shampoo and conditioner,
which cleanses in nourishes with a
luxurious lather. It's got coconut walk,
green tea, Allo Ric and Sage feels
nice. Step two, we got the body wash.
The body Washe is a premium daily shower
gel that's infused with Alovera and
sea. It's the perfect balance of tough,
clean and soothing hydration. Step three,
we're gonna RINs and towel off and then
apply something I've never seen before.
Manscaped hydrating body spray. It's
a spray on moisturizer for everyday.
Hydration is what it says. Got a
360 degree delivery spray system.
And no we're not done yet. Step four, we
got deodorant smells pretty dang good.
This stuff is stain
free. Aluminum free eyes.
Clear smells fricking fantastic. And
now type for step five manscape lip Bal.
You've probably never seen
my lips. They're there,
but my wife says I don't have any.
It's got vitamin E peppermint
and eucalyptus to help soothe,
hydrate and seal in moisture. All this
stuff is cruelty free, Paran free.
And it's vegan now was
five steps, five minutes.
Although I like to take
my showers a bit longer.
So 10 minutes you can also opt in for
the manscaped, uh, peak hygiene plan.
So you can make sure you never
run outta stuff. Cuz you know,
I don't like going to the store,
just pick a plan and that
stuff gets delivered to you
without you thinking about
it. So you can focus on studying
and IP, addressing and stuff,
go to manscape.com and use promo code
network chucking at 20% off your order
plus receive free international
shipping. And yeah,
that was 20% off with free international
shipping with promo code network,
chuck@manscape.com or just
click the link below. Thank you.
Manscaped for covering me
head to toe and seriously,
thanks for sponsoring the video.
You guys should get the
stuff cuz you sting you.
That's all I have explaining
IP addressing is not easy.
So let's make sure you hack
the YouTube algorithm today.
If that light button subscribe
notification bell comment,
we gotta hack YouTube today.
Ethically of course. And yeah,
that's really all I got. Whew,
I'll get you guys next time.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Video 4: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_PPaArOxHhw
================================================================================
hello and this is sunny welcome back
today my topic is veiling and why we
need real I'm reelin stands for virtual
local area network Vila is a logical
network that can group devices or users
regardless of their different physical
locations Avila is created at the switch
YV line there's many reasons why we need
a villains in this video I will talk
about three reasons only one
segmentation
let us say this network we helped with
two departments cells and finest both of
them are connected to one switch it
means both departments belong to one
network or one broadcast Adame one
broadcast domain means when one computer
broadcasts everyone else can hear this
type of network design could cause two
potential problems at least one traffic
congestion and poor performance if
there's too many users in one
broadcasted ami to security concerns
because of the different departments
sharings one same network to address
these two problems here are three
possible solutions solution one we can
buy more switches and routers sells
department care has his own switch and
the finance department can share another
one now they are in two different
independent networks to separate
broadcast domains with a layer 3 device
or router in between these two networks
can talk to each other
solution to we can create with two
villains with one switch like this
physically these two departments she is
one physical switch but virtually they
are in two different independent
villains
we can also add one rotor so that two
villains can talk to each other using a
technique called chunking or trunk don't
worry about trunking or trunk at this
point all we need to know now is
trunking or trunk can carry different
network data over one physical line
simultaneously solution three we can use
a multi-layer switch to create with two
independent villains just like a
solution - the difference is that we
don't need a physical router in between
instead these two villains can talk to
each other using inter VLAN routing
techniques which i will talk about in a
separate video here we just remember
with the multi-layer switches we can
create different villains and we can
also provide routing abilities across
these villains without a physical router
in between the second reason is villains
can greatly simplify network design and
deployment with villains you are no
longer confined to physical locations
users in the same department can be
located in different buildings or
different floors devices with the
different functions or missions can be
connected to the same switch without the
reliance reorganising users all
computers needs
relocating them or rewiring physical
data links which would require hours of
labor and a huge budget for any
organization last but not least easier
troubleshooting and management with
villains
or shooting and a management can be
simpler and a faster when differently
user groups are segmented and isolated
from one another
IT people can quickly narrow down and
fix problems without affecting other
villains villains also make prioritizing
traffic much easier allowing you to make
sure critical application data keep
flowing for example if your organization
uses voice over IP or VoIP you need to
have a separate voice v-line and ensure
the wipe quality while keeping a certain
bandwidth for other applications I hope
this video is helpful if you want to
learn Network systematically please
check out my playlists they are
organized by topics thank you very much
and see you next time
[Music]
you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Video 5: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uz-RTurph3c
================================================================================
why is who needs wires
in this video we're going to be diving
into the World of Wireless networking
here we have a couple of laptops and
some phones now we could connect the
laptops using physical cables but many
laptops don't come with ethernet ports
anymore so that won't work of course the
phones definitely don't have ethernet
ports so that definitely won't work as
well we may also want our users to move
around freely without the need to plug
into our Network the solution here is to
use a wireless network so how exactly do
we do that
well first we need something called a
wireless access point also known as a
WAP or simply an AP this access point is
the center of our wireless network our
laptops phones and other devices will
then connect to our access point through
the app and form our wireless network so
here we have a very basic wireless
network this is known as a basic service
set or BSS
this is where we have an access point
connecting multiple devices which are
known as members of the BSS now there is
a downside to wireless networks like
this and it's one I'm sure you've
experienced before at home
when connected to a wireless network you
are restricted to the area the access
point has signal for you to connect and
this signal area is known as the basic
service area or BSA
okay great so this is what a standalone
wireless network looks like
however most wireless networks will want
to connect back to the wired Network the
Upstream connection from the access
point that connects back to the wired
network is called the distribution
system or DS now we can even use
different vlans for separate wireless
networks if we want to
for example we may have a wireless
network called guest and this is using
VLAN 10. we might also have a wireless
network called corporate which uses VLAN
20. for this to work we connect our
access point to our switch using a trunk
port and the access point will take care
of the VLAN tagging now let's look a
little bit closer at how our devices
connect to the wireless network the
access point is periodically advertising
the network details using radio waves
these advertisements are called Beacon
frames any device within range is able
to see these frames Beacon frames
contain several bits of information but
the two main bits are the basic service
set identifier or BSS ID and the service
set identifier or SSID
the BSS ID is a unique identifier for
the wireless access point and is based
on the Mac address
you as a user will not see the BSS ID
but it's important for our devices to
identify the correct access point
the next piece of information is the
SSID
now the SSID is something I'm sure
you've seen and used before it's
essentially the wireless network name so
when you go into a coffee shop hotel or
even a friend's house and you ask them
what is the Wi-Fi that name that they
give you is the SSID so with this
information our devices can connect to
the wireless network now in a coffee
shop or your friend's house this
wireless network might be big enough for
bigger wireless networks however we
often need to extend our wireless
network using multiple access points
when we use multiple access points like
this it's called an extended service set
in an extended service set each access
point will have a unique BSS ID to
identify the device
the same SSID however can be used on
multiple access points to extend the
range of the wireless network this
allows the user to roam from access
point to access point without needing to
reconnect
this appears to the user as a single
seamless Network
okay great so now we have the basics
done let's talk about how we can
actually send data wirelessly through
the air
the way our devices can talk to each
other without the need for physical
cables is by using electromagnetic waves
this works by sending an alternating
current into an antenna which creates
magnetic fields that propagate out as
waves
if we take a close look at these waves
we can see that they go up and down up
and down up and down these are called
Cycles
each time a wave returns to its starting
point this is one cycle
it's common to measure these Cycles when
the wave goes up down and back to the
start just as you can see here
we measure Wireless frequencies in hertz
a single her means one cycle per second
so in this example we have four Cycles
within one second one two three and four
this means this example has a frequency
of 4 Hertz now Hertz is actually quite a
small measurement so instead we can also
use kilohertz which is 1000 Hertz
megahertz which is 1 million Hertz and
gigahertz which is 1 billion Hertz these
electromagnetic frequencies have a lot
of different uses if we look at this
table we can see the radio frequencies
measured in hertz as well as some
examples of their uses
radio frequencies range from three
kilohertz to 300 gigahertz
you have probably heard of radio
frequencies before things such as radio
and TV use radio frequencies
this is also where the wireless
networking frequencies are
as we can see from this table each use
is separated by using a different
frequency range which are called bands
Wireless uses two main frequency bands
2.4 and 5 gigahertz
now just to make things a bit more
complicated these bands are then split
into separate channels
if we look at the 2.4 gigahertz band
which is actually
2.400 to
2.4835 gigahertz
we can see that it's split into
different channels the reason we use
channels is to split the wireless bands
into smaller more manageable pieces
allowing us to control things like
congestion and interference the 2.4
gigahertz band has 14 channels however a
lot of these overlap which can cause
interference
so instead it is recommended to use
channels 1 6 and 11 to avoid any
problems
this is because these channels do not
overlap with each other minimizing any
interference the 5 gigahertz band as we
can see here does not have the issue of
overlapping channels so why do we care
about frequencies and channels well
you're gonna need to choose which band
and which channel you will be using
generally speaking the choice comes down
to 2.4 gigahertz which has a longer
reach but slower speeds it also is
usually a bit more congested by other
devices
five gigahertz has a shorter Ridge but
can use faster speeds now when looking
at different channels this only really
matters if you have multiple access
points or multiple wireless networks
close by
if you only have one then any channel
will work
when there are multiple wireless
networks within range this is when
interference can occur so it's best to
choose a separate non-overlapping
Channel
okay so that was a lot of information
everything we just looked at is part of
the IEEE standard 802.11
now as Wireless Technologies has evolved
and improved over time Amendments have
been made to the 802.11 standard here
you can see the Amendments and the
characteristics for each
you may have seen these before if you've
ever purchased a home router it's
important to note that for two devices
to talk to each other they both need to
support the same amendments luckily
devices can be compatible with multiple
amendments so you shouldn't run into any
problems so before we finish this video
I just want to quickly go over some
other Wireless modes that our access
points can operate in
first let's look at repeaters repeaters
do exactly what they say on the tin they
receive a signal from an access point
and then repeat that signal in order to
extend the wireless coverage
it's not always possible to run
additional cables to add another access
point
so in these situations we can use
repeaters instead
next we have work group Bridges
work group Bridges act as Wireless
clients to a wireless access point
they can then connect a wired device to
that wireless network so why would you
want to do that well for example say we
have a printer or a PC that does not
support wireless connections
we can then use a wired connection to
that work group Bridge which would then
in turn connect to the wireless network
quick note here there are two types you
might encounter
Universal work group Bridges this is the
802.11 standard and only allows one
wired device to be bridged to a wireless
network
group bridge is Cisco's own version
allowing multiple devices to connect
the next mode is outdoor Bridges outdoor
bridges are used to connect two remote
networks over a long distance
for example you may have two Office
Buildings that you want to connect but
it's not possible to lay any cables
maybe because there's a busy road or
like a river or something like that in
between
in this case you can use outdoor Bridges
with specially focused antennas to
connect networks over a long distance
it's like running a really long Ethernet
cable but through the air
this is known as a point-to-point
outdoor bridge but you can also have
point to multi-point outdoor Bridges
where more than one remote site connects
back to the main Network
so the last one to talk about is mesh
mode when you have a very large area to
provide wireless coverage for is not
always possible to connect every access
point via cables back to the wide
Network
so instead we can use mesh mode to daisy
chain multiple access points together
the way this works is each access point
will have two radios one will use a
channel to backhoe client traffic from
the access point back to the wireless
network and the other will use a channel
to maintain that basic service set
network
this creates a seamless wireless network
across large areas
this video is part of the full CCNA
course which you can find in the
description below
okay so that is it for wireless networks
frequencies cycles and hertz can be
intimidating at first but the concepts
are pretty straightforward if you stick
with it if you like this video don't
forget to give it a thumbs up leave a
comment and subscribe support from you
guys really helps this channel grow
other than that thank you for watching
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Video 6: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1zVZ9cWFnCc
================================================================================
Ever wondered how data travels
across the internet or how your emails,
web pages and files reach their destination?
Curious about the rules that make
all this communication possible?
You’re in the right place!
Welcome to WhiteboardDoodles,
the channel where we simplify
tech-related concepts
using whiteboard animations.
Today, we’ll explore the network protocols
that power the web, revealing how they make
our digital world work.
Let’s get started.
First, let's take a look at
what a network protocol is.
A network protocol is a set of rules
and conventions that govern
how data is transmitted and received
across a network.
It defines how devices on a network
communicate with each other, ensuring that
data is sent, received and interpreted correctly.
These protocols establish the format
of data packets, the way devices identify
and connect with each other
and the methods for error checking
and data retransmission.
By adhering to these agreed-upon standards,
different types of hardware and software
can work together seamlessly, enabling
reliable and efficient communication
over local networks and the internet.
Now, let's take a look at some
of the most common network protocols.
First, we have HTTP/HTTPS protocols.
HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol
is the foundation of data communication
on the web, enabling the transfer
of web pages from servers to browsers.
It operates as a request-response protocol,
where a client such as a web browser
sends a request to a server
and the server responds with
the requested resources, like HTML pages,
images or other content.
HTTPS or Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
is the secure version of HTTP, which adds
a layer of encryption using SSL and TLS
to protect the data being transferred.
This ensures that the communication
between the client and server
is encrypted and secure, safeguarding sensitive
information from eavesdropping and tampering.
Next we have FTP.
 FTP or File Transfer Protocol
is a standard network protocol used
for transferring files between a client and a server
over the internet or within a local network.
It operates on a client-server model,
where the client initiates a connection
to the server to upload or download files.
FTP supports both anonymous access,
where users don't need credentials,
and authenticated access which requires
a username and password.
Although widely used for file sharing,
FTP lacks encryption, making it less secure
for transferring sensitive data.
For secure file transfers,
protocols like FTPS or SFTP are recommended.
Up next, we have SMTP.
SMTP or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
is the standard protocol used
for sending and relaying email messages
across networks.
It operates as a push protocol
where an email client like Outlook or Gmail
connects to an SMTP server to send messages
to the recipient's mail server.
SMTP is responsible for ensuring that emails
are correctly routed and delivered
to the intended destination.
While it handles outgoing mail,
SMTP is often paired with protocols that manage
the retrieval of incoming mail, like IMAP or POP3
which we'll cover later in the video.
Like the previous protocols we covered,
SMTP itself does not provide encryption
so secure versions like SMTPS are used
to protect email content during transmission.
Next, let's take a look at DNS.
DNS or Domain Name System
is a crucial protocol that translates
human-readable domain names like
www.youtube.com into IP addresses
that computers use to locate and communicate
with each other on the internet.
Acting as the internet's phonebook,
DNS allows users to access websites
using easy-to-remember names
instead of complex numerical IP addresses.
When a user enters a domain name
into their browser, the DNS server looks up
the corresponding IP address and directs
the request to the appropriate web server.
This process happens almost instantly,
making it seamless for users to navigate the web.
Coming up next: DHCP.
DHCP or Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
is a network protocol that automatically
assigns IP addresses and other
network configuration parameters to devices
on a network, allowing them
to communicate efficiently.
When a device, like a computer or smartphone,
connects to a network, the DHCP server
dynamically assigns it an available IP address
from a predefined range, along with
necessary details such as the subnet mask,
default gateway and DNS server.
This automated process simplifies
network management by eliminating the need
for manual IP address configuration,
reducing conflicts and ensuring that each device
has the correct network settings
to operate smoothly.
Moving forward, we have SSH.
SSH or Secure Shell
is a network protocol used to securely access
and manage remote servers and devices
over an unsecured network.
It provides a secure channel through which
users can execute commands, transfer files
and perform administrative tasks
on remote machines.
SSH encrypts all data exchanged between
the client and server, protecting it from
eavesdropping and tampering.
By using strong authentication methods,
such as passwords or cryptographic keys,
SSH ensures that only authorized users
can access the remote system.
This makes SSH an essential tool
for secure remote administration
and secure data transfer.
For more information on cryptography
and encryption, feel free to check out
our video on that topic in the video description.
Now let's take a look at TCP/IP.
TCP/IP or
Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol,
is a foundational suite of protocols
that underpins most modern networks,
including the internet.
TCP/IP enables reliable data transmission
by breaking data into packets, ensuring
they arrive in order, and handling
any errors that occur during transmission.
The IP part of the suite handles
addressing and routing, ensuring packets
reach their correct destination
across diverse networks.
Together, TCP/IP facilitates robust,
scalable and efficient communication
between devices, making it essential for
network connectivity and internet functionality.
For a more detailed overview
of IP addresses, be sure to check out
our separate video on that topic.
Next, we have POP3 and IMAP.
POP3 or Post Office Protocol 3
and IMAP or Internet Message Access Protocol
are two protocols that help you access
your emails from a mail server.
POP3 downloads emails to your device
and usually removes them from the server,
so you can read them offline, but it limits
access from other devices.
IMAP, on the other hand, keeps your emails
on the server and syncs them across
all your devices so you can access
your messages from anywhere.
SMTP,  which we covered earlier in the video,
is used to send emails to the server,
while POP3 and IMAP are used to retrieve
them from the server.
Together, these protocols work to ensure
you can send and receive emails effectively.
Coming up next: UDP.
UDP or User Datagram Protocol
is a communication protocol used
in computer networks that allows for fast
and connectionless data transmission.
Unlike TCP, UDP does not establish a connection
before sending data, nor does it guarantee delivery,
order or error checking of packets.
This makes UDP more efficient for applications
where speed is critical and data loss is acceptable,
such as live video streaming, online gaming
or voice-over-IP services.
While it's less reliable than TCP,
UDP's simplicity and low overhead make it ideal
for real-time applications where performance
is more important than accuracy.
Now, let's take a look at ARP.
ARP or Address Resolution Protocol
is a network protocol used to map
an IP address to a physical MAC address
within a local network.
When a device wants to communicate with
another device on the same network,
it needs to know the recipient's MAC address.
ARP helps by sending out a broadcast request
asking "Who has this IP address?"
The device with the matching IP address
responds with its MAC address,
allowing the communication to proceed.
ARP is essential for enabling seamless
communication between devices
on a local network.
To learn more about how MAC addresses work,
check out our separate video,
which you'll find linked in the video description.
Moving forward, we have Telnet.
Telnet is an older network protocol that allows
users to remotely access and manage
devices over a network using
a command-line interface.
Unlike more modern protocols,
Telnet does not encrypt the data
being transmitted which includes sensitive
information like login credentials.
Because of this lack of security,
Telnet is generally considered outdated
and insecure, making it less suitable for use
in today’s environments where security is a priority.
It was briefly mentioned in our previous video
on firewalls as an example of a protocol
that can be easily exploited by attackers
if not properly secured.
Next on our list is SNMP.
SNMP or Simple Network Management Protocol
is a network protocol used for managing
and monitoring network devices,
such as routers, switches and servers.
It allows network administrators to collect
performance data, monitor device status
and configure network hardware
from a centralized management system.
SNMP operates using a client-server model
where the managed devices (agents) send
information to a network management system (NMS)
upon request or periodically.
This protocol helps in maintaining network
performance and troubleshooting issues,
making it a crucial tool for network administration.
Coming up next: ICMP.
ICMP or Internet Control Message Protocol
is a network protocol used to send
error messages and operational information
about network communication.
It operates as part of the Internet Protocol suite
and is essential for diagnosing and managing
network issues.
ICMP helps in troubleshooting network
connectivity problems by providing feedback
on the status of data transmission.
For example, tools like "ping" and "traceroute"
use ICMP to test the reachability
of network devices and to determine the path
that data takes across the network.
By reporting errors and network conditions,
ICMP aids in maintaining efficient
and reliable network operations.
Next, let's take a look at NTP.
NTP or Network Time Protocol
is a network protocol used to synchronize
the clocks of computers and network devices
over a network.
It ensures that all devices on a network
have a consistent and accurate time
which is crucial for various applications
such as logging events, coordinating transactions
and scheduling tasks.
NTP operates by allowing devices
to communicate with time servers
which provide the correct time
based on highly accurate sources
like atomic clocks.
By maintaining synchronized time across
a network, NTP helps in preventing
errors and inconsistencies that could arise
from time discrepancies, thereby ensuring
smooth and reliable operations.
And lastly, let's take a look at RIP and OSPF.
RIP or Routing Information Protocol
and OSPF or Open Shortest Path First
are two widely used routing protocols
in computer networks.
RIP is a simpler, distance-vector protocol
that determines the best path for data
by counting the number of hops between
the source and destination.
However, it has limitations in larger networks
due to its slower convergence and maximum
hop limit of 15.
OSPF, on the other hand, is a more advanced,
link-state protocol that uses a cost-based metric
to determine the shortest
and most efficient path for data.
It’s faster, more scalable and better suited
for complex networks.
In conclusion, understanding network protocols
is essential for grasping how data travels
across networks, ensuring smooth communication
between devices.
These protocols, from basic ones like TCP/IP
to specialized ones like RIP and OSPF,
form the backbone of internet functionality
and network management.
Whether you're dealing with email,
file transfers or routing data,
knowing how these protocols work
gives you the insight needed to manage,
secure and optimize your network effectively.
With this knowledge, you can better appreciate
the complexity and efficiency
of modern digital communication.
This concludes our exploration of network protocols.
If you enjoyed it,
consider subscribing to our channel
and liking the video.
Feel free to also check out our other videos
on related topics.
Thank you for watching.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Video 7: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MXr_cyY0BVc
================================================================================
Curious about the devices
that make your network run smoothly?
From routers to switches, these essential tools
are the backbone of any network - big or small.
Welcome to WhiteboardDoodles,
the channel where we simplify
tech-related concepts
using whiteboard animations.
Today, we’re diving into the world
of network devices, explaining what they do
and how they work together
to keep your data flowing.
Let's get started.
Network devices are essential components
that enable the smooth functioning
of communication systems within a network.
These hardware tools, including routers, switches,
hubs, modems and access points, play a crucial role
in connecting various devices,
such as computers, servers and other peripherals,
allowing them to exchange information seamlessly.
Each device performs a specific task,
from routing data between networks
to managing traffic within a local network
or even providing access to the internet.
By ensuring that data is transmitted efficiently
and securely, these devices help create
the infrastructure necessary for everything
from small home networks
to complex enterprise systems.
Without them, reliable and organized data flow
would be impossible, as they form
the backbone of modern connectivity.
First, let's analyze the key component
in any network - the router.
Routers are essential network devices
that facilitate communication between
different networks by directing data packets
to their appropriate destinations.
They operate at the network layer of the OSI model,
making intelligent decisions about
where to send data based on IP addresses.
By connecting multiple devices within
a local area network (LAN) and linking that LAN
to the internet, routers enable seamless data flow
between devices, such as computers,
smartphones and printers.
Additionally, routers often include built-in
security features, such as firewalls 
and network address translation (NAT),
to protect internal devices from external threats.
With their ability to manage traffic efficiently
and prioritize data, routers are fundamental
to both home and enterprise networks,
ensuring reliable and organized connectivity.
If you want to learn more about the OSI model,
IP addresses, firewalls and network protocols
like NAT, be sure to check out our separate videos
on each of these topics linked
in the video description.
Next, let's explore switches, another essential
component of network infrastructure.
Switches are crucial network devices that facilitate
communication between multiple devices
within a local area network.
They operate at the data link layer
of the OSI model and are designed to receive,
process and forward data
to the appropriate destination device,
ensuring efficient data transfer.
Unlike routers, which connect different networks
and direct traffic based on IP addresses,
switches function primarily within a single network,
using MAC addresses to determine
where to send the data.
This means that when a switch receives
a data packet, it examines the packet's destination
MAC address and forwards it
only to the designated device,
minimizing network congestion.
Other devices, such as computers, printers
and servers, connect to the switch
via Ethernet cables, allowing for seamless
communication and resource sharing
within the network.
For more information on MAC addresses,
we recommend watching our video on the topic,
which will be linked in the video description.
Next, let's take a look at the hub,
one of the most fundamental devices
in early network setups.
A hub connects several computers or devices
within a local area network but operates
with far less sophistication than more modern
equipment like switches or routers.
Instead of directing data to specific devices,
a hub simply broadcasts any data
it receives to all connected devices,
regardless of its intended destination.
This results in network inefficiencies
and potential collisions,
as every device processes the data,
whether it's meant for them or not.
Though widely used in the past,
hubs have largely been replaced by switches
due to their superior ability
to manage network traffic.
Now let's look at another essential device
in your network setup - the modem.
Short for modulator-demodulator,
a modem connects your local network
to the internet by converting digital data
from your devices into analog signals
that can be transmitted over telephone lines,
cable or fiber optics and vice versa.
Unlike a router, which directs traffic
within a local network and between different
networks, a modem's primary function
is to provide access to the internet
by communicating with your
Internet Service Provider (ISP).
In many modern setups,
a modem-router combination device is used,
combining the modem's ability to connect
to the internet with the router's role
of managing and directing data
between devices within your local network.
While standalone modems and routers offer
more flexibility for configuration and upgrades,
the combination device is a convenient
all-in-one solution for many households.
Next, let's take a look at access points or APs.
An access point is a device that plays
a crucial role in expanding your wireless network.
While many routers come with
built-in Wi-Fi capabilities, access points
are specifically designed to extend
wireless coverage in areas where the router's signal
may be weak or inconsistent.
They connect to the router using Ethernet cables,
allowing them to broadcast
a strong Wi-Fi signal over a larger area.
This is particularly beneficial in larger homes,
offices or buildings where a single router
may struggle to provide adequate coverage.
By strategically placing access points
throughout the space, you can ensure
that more devices can connect wirelessly
without overloading the main router.
This setup not only enhances connectivity
but also improves overall network performance,
as it reduces the likelihood of dropped
connections or slow internet speeds.
Let's now discuss an essential component
of network security - the firewall.
Firewalls act as a security barrier
between your internal network and the internet,
monitoring and controlling incoming and outgoing
traffic based on established security rules.
A hardware firewall is typically installed
at the network's entry point, ensuring that any data
trying to enter or leave the network
is thoroughly inspected.
By filtering out malicious traffic and allowing
only authorized data to pass through,
firewalls help prevent unauthorized access,
malware and other cyber threats
from infiltrating your network.
For more insights into how firewalls work
and their crucial role in network security,
be sure to check out our separate video
on firewalls linked in the description below.
Next, let's examine an essential component
in every networked device
- the Network Interface Card or NIC.
An NIC is responsible for enabling a computer,
printer or other device to connect to a network
by acting as the bridge between
the device and the network itself.
Found either integrated into a device's motherboard
or as an external card, an NIC facilitates
communication by creating a pathway for data
to flow in and out of the device.
Available in both wired and wireless versions,
NICs can connect devices to Ethernet networks
through a cable or wirelessly through Wi-Fi,
making them versatile for various network setups.
In addition to establishing connectivity,
an NIC translates data into a format suitable
for transmission over the network,
ensuring that devices can seamlessly share files,
access resources and communicate
with one another across the network.
Now let's explore the function of repeaters.
A repeater is a device that regenerates
and amplifies signals to extend the reach
of a network, effectively bridging the gap
between two distant points.
When data travels over a network,
the signal can weaken
due to distance or obstacles.
A repeater boosts this signal, allowing it
to travel further without degradation.
Unlike access points which create new
wireless networks or enhance existing ones,
repeaters simply receive signals
and retransmit them, ensuring that data
can travel across larger areas.
This makes repeaters particularly useful
in environments where physical barriers
might hinder connectivity, helping maintain
a stable and robust network connection
throughout the space.
Let's move on to another essential
networking device - the bridge.
A network bridge connects two or more
network segments, allowing them to function
as a single, unified network.
By linking these segments, a bridge enables
devices on each segment to communicate
with one another, expanding the network
while keeping data flow organized.
Unlike routers which operate at the network layer,
bridges work at the data link layer,
using MAC addresses to decide
where to forward data.
This selective forwarding reduces unnecessary
traffic, improving network performance.
Although bridges are less common today
due to advancements in switches,
they still play a valuable role in managing
data flow in smaller or segmented networks.
The next network device on our list is the gateway.
A gateway connects different networks,
often with varying protocols and enables them
to communicate seamlessly.
It acts as a translator between networks
that operate on different systems or standards,
converting data into a compatible format
so information can pass between them.
Gateways are especially important in larger networks,
such as those found in organizations,
where they connect local networks
to external networks like the internet.
Unlike a router, which primarily directs data traffic
within or between similar networks, a gateway
can link completely different network types.
This device helps ensure compatibility
and communication across diverse systems,
supporting smooth data transfer and resource
sharing across a wide range
of network environments.
For more on network protocols,
check out our video linked in the description.
Lastly, let's take a look at the load balancer.
A load balancer is a critical network device
used to manage traffic across multiple servers
or resources to ensure smooth
and reliable network performance.
By distributing incoming data requests evenly,
a load balancer helps prevent any single server
from becoming overloaded, which can lead
to slower response times or even system crashes.
Load balancers are commonly used
in environments with high traffic
or multiple resources, such as large websites
or cloud-based services, to maximize
efficiency and uptime.
They also monitor the health of servers
in real-time, automatically redirecting traffic
if a server goes down, ensuring continuity of service.
This makes load balancers invaluable
for maintaining optimal network performance
and user experience, particularly in larger networks
where consistent availability is essential.
In conclusion, understanding the different
network devices and their roles provides a foundation
for creating efficient, reliable networks.
Each device - whether a router,
switch, firewall or gateway - serves a specific
purpose in managing data flow,
security and connectivity across local
and external networks.
Knowing how and when to use these devices
can help ensure smoother communication,
enhanced security and better performance
across your network setup, giving you the tools
to navigate the basics of networking with confidence.
This marks the end of our exploration
of common network devices.
If you enjoyed it,
consider subscribing to our channel
and liking the video.
Feel free to also check out our other videos
on related topics.
Thank you for watching.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

